*collaboration avec mr Calciu
*Price and Pharmaceutical Marketing**

The price of pharmaceutical products plays a vital role in promoting
drugs to doctors. Pharmaceutical prices are heavily regulated with price
fluctuations rare and small but there are various factors can increase
the price of medicines in the United States;

-   Patents and Market exclusivity prevent regular price competition

-   The existence of multiple insurers breaks down the power of buyer to
    negotiate price

-   The absence of a national health technology assessment system that
    limits the ability to set prices. \[1\]

**How do doctors and patients react with expensive drugs?**

According to publication "Modeling the effects of pharmaceutical
marketing", physicians work in the interest of patients and do not have
a financial stimulus to be price sensitive \[5\]. Physicians' price
sensitivity comes second to considerations about drug efficacy and
patients' conditions. \[11\]

Insured patients are likely not price sensitive and have little
awareness of the retail price of their prescription. \[5\]

**Effect of marketing expenses on price sensitivity**

Hurwitz and Caves (1988), Rizzo (1999), and Windmeijer et al. (2005)
find that marketing expenses reduce price sensitivity and conclude that
marketing expenses have a mainly convincing effect but for Leffler
(1981) marketing efforts can increase price sensitivity. The results of
the study "Modeling the effects of pharmaceutical marketing" show that
the demand for the large majority of the brands is not affected by the
price and there is no evidence that marketing expenses reduce price
sensitivity.

**Peak sales and pharmaceutical marketing**

Marketing expenses increase the level of peak sales, while reducing time
to peak sales. In the first two years after the launch of the drug,
pharmaceutical companies focus their marketing efforts that lead to high
sales but slow sales growth in subsequent years when marketing efforts
are limited.

Windemeijer et al. (2006) also find that promotion primarily expands
market share, while Rizzo (1999) finds evidence that promotion expands
the size of the market.

According to the "**Drivers of peak sales for pharmaceutical brands**"
publication, the Variables that affect peak sales of pharmaceutical
brands are; \[6\]

1.  Potential peak-sales drivers

2.  Effects of order of entry and quality Marketing support

3.  Competitive marketing support

4.  Number of competitors

5.  Price

**DTCA AND REGULATION**

DTCA can affect almost all patients in every country, in one way or
another, thus raising its share of ethical issues. Consumers will be
subject to DTCA in countries that allow the advertisement of drugs but
may still be subject to DTCI campaigns sponsored by pharmaceutical
companies in countries that do not allow DTCA. DTCC may not have so much
an informational purpose, but rather a promotional one in relation to a
given product, and that motivations other than "care" are underlying
such messages.\[4\]

In addition, DTCA has the ability to educate people about specific
situations, encourage the request for professional assistance, and may
lead to treatment that would not have been otherwise (Masson and Rubin
1985; Lyles 2002; Chao 2005; Almasi et al. 2006).

But the rapid uptake of new drugs due to DTCA can cause a problem when
the new uses are for patients who are not a good match for the drug.
(Spence et al. 2005; Kravitz et al. 2005).

In a review of 16 studies, Wazana (2000) found that interactions with
pharmaceutical companies were associated with:

-   Requests for addition to the formulary for the sponsored drug which
    are not clearly advantageous compared to the existing formulary
    drugs;

-   Prescribing practices in favor of the sponsored drug;

-   Preference and prompt prescription of new drugs

-   A reduction in the prescription of generic drugs in favor of new
    drugs with no apparent benefits

According to the results of "THE EFFECTS OF PHARMACEUTICAL MARKETING AND
PROMOTION ON ADVERSE DRUG EVENTS AND REGULATION" study, the effect of
promotion and advertising in improving communication between patients
and doctors can increase well-being if doctors can identify who best
fits the treatment. \[2\]

**Yemen and Pharmaceutical Marketing**

A study was conducted in Yemen to evaluate the interaction between the
medical representative and doctors; \[3\]

Yemen as a developing country with a different culture and health care
system for developed countries.

Pharmaceutical Marketing properties:

\_ Lack of organized anti-drug promotion

\_ The absence of a clear mechanism for monitoring promotional
activities

\_ Little information is available regarding the dynamics of the
relationship between MRs and physicians.

The sample size is 385 individuals, calculated based on the Equation
developed by Cochran.

The results of the study revealed that promotional materials such as
magazines, textbooks and antibiotic guides were considered appropriate
by a large majority of respondents, but more than half of all
respondents considered cell phones inappropriate.

In addition, Doctors believe that attending a dinner and a lecture given
by an academic sponsored by a pharmaceutical company is more acceptable
than accepting an invitation to a meal in a restaurant or hotel without
a lecture.

The majority of respondents confirm that they will continue to see MRs
even if they stop giving gifts and drug samples for use in their
practice.

The majority also considered that MRs were a useful means of identifying
new drugs. However, a clear majority of respondents felt that
conversations sponsored by the pharmaceutical company were often biased
in favor of their products (the information provided by MRs is
insufficient or, even worse, misleading because they believe that the
MRs approach is to sell products and not to spread information),
although most respondents disagreed with the statement that MR wasted
doctors' time.

**Differentiation and Pharmaceutical Marketing**

A study conducted in US "Longitudinal Study on the Performance of U.S.
Pharmaceutical Firms: The Increasing Role of Marketing" shows
significant implications for advertising and product differentiation on
the market value of companies.

The financial reason for the pharmaceutical market is due to the
frequent release of additional drugs, the effective use of advertising
and the escalation of research and development.

It's clear that incorporating product differentiation can give a more
complete picture of the core values of publicly traded drug companies.

**Interaction between pharmaceutical representatives and physicians**

A qualitative meta-synthesis (the process of combining a set of similar
qualitative studies with the aim of developing an interpretation of the
results) was conducted to explore the interaction between drug
representatives and doctors. \[8\]

**Six general themes were formulated for the results section;**

1.  The frequency of pharmaceutical representatives' visits

2.  Ethical acceptance of the PR-physician interactions

3.  Physicians' attitudes towards PR visits

4.  Physicians' perceptions of the effect of PR visits on prescription
    patterns

5.  Reasons to accept/reject PRs

6.  Guidelines

A total of 15 publications were included in the study covering studies
conducted in a group of countries; six from the United States, two from
Libya, and one each from Turkey, Peru, India, Germany, the United
Kingdom (United Kingdom), Yemen, and Japan.

\_ Two studies showed that pharmaceutical representatives visited
physicians working in private clinics more frequently than physicians
working in community and university hospitals.

\_ Teaching physicians and pediatricians have been reported to receive
more frequent visits, while anesthesia has been found to be less visited
by pharmaceutical representatives.

\_ A study reported that the more frequently visited physicians were
more likely to consider the information provided to be of "high quality.

\_ In India some physicians justify gifts as compensation for the time
they spent listening to medical representatives, which was the time they
would have spent on the patient. \"The major beneficiaries have not
attempted a bribe to sell their medication". The gifts are just a sign
of thanks for the time given by the doctor to the medical
representative.

\_Wang et al. showed two essential factors to changing prescribing
behavior: information provided by medical representatives and
availability of samples

(36% (n=32) of ophthalmology trainees reported having changed
prescribing behavior based on the information provided by a PRs, 77%
(n=94) stated that they changed prescribing behavior based on the
availability of medicine samples).

\_ All 15 included studies illustrated one common point that physicians
almost always believe that such interactions can influence their
colleagues' prescription patterns but not theirs.

\_ Reasons to accept medical representatives:

-   Sponsorship, gifts

-   Social aspect of the interaction

-   Courtesy and tradition

\_ Reasons to avoid medical representatives:

-   Personal style

-   Company

-   Kind of drugs

-   Bad experience with medical representatives and commercial context

-   Obligations to other companies

-   Lack of conviction about the product

-   Lack of credibility of medical representatives

-   Workload or inappropriate timing of visits

\_ As evidenced by a meta-synthesis, the attitude of physicians towards
medical representatives is a very critical determinant of the
possibility of medical representatives indirectly affecting patient
health in a positive or negative way. The studies reported in the
meta-synthesis were conducted in nine different countries with different
economies, cultures, and education / health care systems significantly
different, but the positive attitude of physicians towards
pharmaceutical representatives was evident in each.

\_ Physicians are immune from any potential marketing influence. This is
mainly because most of physicians believe that they have the required
expertise and knowledge to assess the presented information and
distinguish the valid information from the exaggerated, biased
information.

\_ This meta-synthesis shows that physicians generally see meetings with
medical representatives as advantageous to everyone: the patients,
because they receive free drug samples, the hospital/clinic, because
they would receive stationery, books, and, most importantly, themselves,
as these meetings help them to stay up-to-date and aware of newly
launched medications.

Future research should focus on educating medical students to correct
their perception of immunity against marketing which may hold them back
from critically appraising the information provided by PRs. This will
ensure that patients do not bear the cost of competition between
pharmaceutical companies.

**Patients and Pharmaceutical Marketing**

Patient culture influences their beliefs and attitudes. In Pakistan, 62%
of respondents to a survey agreed that a "doctor is next to God" and 88%
of respondents agreed it is appropriate for doctors to accept gifts from
pharmaceutical companies. In Turkey, 71% of respondents to a survey
agreed that accepting gifts from pharmaceutical company was unethical.

One study found the potential association between perceived relationship
with pharmaceutical industry and decreased trust in physicians, this
requires more attention due to potential impact on patients\' clinical
decisions. \[10\]

**Research:**

\_ Explore the knowledge, beliefs and attitudes of patients and the
general public towards physician-industry interactions and the effect of
patients on prescribing pattern.

\_ Effect of drug price on prescribing pattern.

\_ Digital marketing and experience of physicians during covid19

**References**

1-Marc A. Rodwin: Pharmaceutical Price and Spending Controls in France:
Lessons for the United States International, Journal of Health Services,
2020.

2-Guy David, Snara Markowitz and Seth Richards: THE EFFECTS OF
PHARMACEUTICAL MARKETING AND PROMOTION ON ADVERSE DRUG EVENTS AND
REGULATION, NBER Working Paper No. 14634.

3-Mahmoud A. Al-Areefia , Mohamed Izham M. Ibrahimb, Mohamed Azmi A.
Hassalic and Abubakr A. Alfadlda: Perceptions of Yemeni physicians about
interactions with medical representatives, journal of pharmaceutical
health services research, 2017.

4-Jean-Christophe and Bélisle-Pipon : Dear DTCA, Please Don't Deceive
Me, Don't Play on My Fantasy, Bioéthique Online,2016

5-P. S. H. Leeflang and J. E. Wieringa: Modeling the effects of
pharmaceutical marketing, Springer, 2009.

6-Marc Fischer, Peter S. H. Leeflang and Peter C. Verhoef: Drivers of
peak sales for pharmaceutical brands, Springer, 2010

7-L.H. Pattikawa: Longitudinal Study on the Performance of U.S.
Pharmaceutical Firms: The Increasing Role of Marketing, ERIM Report
Series, 2007.

8-Shahrzad Salmasi, Long Chiau Ming and Tahir Mehmood Khan: "Interaction
and medical inducement between pharmaceutical representatives and
physicians: a meta-synthesis", Journal of Pharmaceutical Policy and
Practice, 2016.

9-Mohsen ALI MURSHID and Zurina MOHAIDIN: "Models and theories of
prescribing decisions: A review and suggested a new model", Pharmacy
Practice, 2017.

10-Racha Fadlallah, Hala Nas, Dana Naamani, Fadi El Jardali, Ihsan
Hammoura, Lina Al-Khaled, Hneine Brax, lara Kahale and Elie A. Akl :
Knowledge, Beliefs and Attitudes of patients and the general public
towards the interactions of physicians with the pharmaceutical and the
device industry: a systematic review, PLoS One, 2016.
